# Worklog for 2025-05-28

## Summary of Activities
- Pass Vault password to playbook through CLI
- Code initial version of the custom web monitoring script
- Install and configure custom plugin through Ansible
- Testing of monitoring role


## Process

START TIME: 5:24 PM CST

Found how to automate the vault password today so I integrated that into my design. Created a plain text file that
contains just the password for the vault file.  This will be stored locally and will not be treacked in the repo.
Now I can securely store the ansible vault variables in the repo I created and pass the password through the CLI 
with no user intervention necessary.

Ok, now with that done, going to start on developing the python script for the custom nagios check.

Got the first draft of the script done.  The logic seems sound but I won't know for sure until I test it out once
it is deployed.  While I believe this version of the script will accomplish the stated goals, I'm not too happy
with it.  I may revist and make changes once I confirm the logic is sound.  Now to test.

Getting a bit ahead of myself.  I need to create the webserver input file that the scipt will read from.  As I did 
earlier with the haproxy config, I didn't want to create another location to update if the list of webservers were
to change.  As I did before, created a template file that would loop over the webserver inventory to dynamically
build the input file for the checks.

With the input file built, need to get the check configured and deployed.  I was going to add the tasks to the 
plugins task file I had created but, after thinking about it, decided to separate it into its own task file. I chose
to do this because I wanted it to be clear to anyone reviewing the code which tasks are for which part of the install.
Didn't want to revisit this in a few years and have to dig into the code to identify which file I put the custom
check in. Also, doing it this way I can easily add another custom check and use the same task file.

Ok, now time to test.

Testing didn't go as I expected.  It looks like all the base tasks are failing and I don't see any of the hosts on
the web UI.  At least the custom plugin appears to be working (that's the only check that is green).  Well, I will
need to revisit this at another time. I'm hoping it is something small I am overlooking.

END TIME: 8:11 PM CST


## Next Steps
- Debug monitoring issues
- Refactor python script
- Create better architecture diagram for README (lower priority)
- Refine work notes (add missing pictures and clean up grammar) (lower priority)