# Worklog for 2025-05-28

## Summary of Activities
- Pass Vault password to playbook through CLI
- Code initial version of the custom web monitoring script
- Install and configure custom plugin through Ansible
- Testing of monitoring role


## Process

START TIME: 5:30 PM CST

Time to add the expensify user to the boxes. This is pretty straight forward process in ansible.  Copied over
the ssh public keys file that was provided to me in the initial email for the description of this project.
Placed that in the files directory so my main task file can just copy it over into the `expensify` .ssh directory.
Create the user and make sure the .ssh directory is created for the user. 

With that configured, time to lock the network down. The tricky thing with this setup is that we need to pick one
host to serve as a sort of bastion server that gatekeeps access to the rest of the system. I decided to go with the
Nagios server for this but I also wanted to configure this in a way where we can change this decision with minimal
code changes if we wanted to.

To accomplish this, I decided to set a `bastion_host` variable in the inventory and set it to true only for the
host I wish to serve as the bastion host.  I can then use that variable to evaluate which host to allow public
ssh access to and also from which host to allow ssh access from to the remaining hosts.

The other tricky part in doing it this way was extracting the IP for the bastion from the host config.  I had to
create a `set_fact` and use the built in ansible filters to manipulate the data and get me the information I need
(like the `ansible_host` value for whichever host has the `bastion_host=true` parameter).  Just in case the variable
is not set for whatever reason, I configured it so that it would default to the Nagios server. 

The network hardening seems to have worked. I can only ssh to the Nagios server now through ssh on my local machine.
I also tested to see if I can access the other servers through the bastion host and that seems to work also. I'm
pasting the test output below

FAILED:
```
Richards-Mac-mini:expensify-infra-challenge richmole$ ssh ubuntu@35.90.39.126
ssh: connect to host 35.90.39.126 port 22: Operation timed out
```
SUCCESS:
```
Richards-Mac-mini:expensify-infra-challenge richmole$ ssh -A -J ubuntu@54.188.236.235 ubuntu@35.90.39.126

Welcome to Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS (GNU/Linux 6.8.0-1018-aws x86_64)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com
 * Management:     https://landscape.canonical.com
 * Support:        https://ubuntu.com/pro

 System information as of Wed Jun  4 03:04:03 UTC 2025

  System load:  0.0               Temperature:           -273.1 C
  Usage of /:   43.0% of 6.71GB   Processes:             114
  Memory usage: 28%               Users logged in:       0
  Swap usage:   0%                IPv4 address for ens5: 172.30.0.78

 * Ubuntu Pro delivers the most comprehensive open source security and
   compliance features.

   https://ubuntu.com/aws/pro

Expanded Security Maintenance for Applications is not enabled.

115 updates can be applied immediately.
2 of these updates are standard security updates.
To see these additional updates run: apt list --upgradable

Enable ESM Apps to receive additional future security updates.
See https://ubuntu.com/esm or run: sudo pro status


*** System restart required ***
Last login: Wed Jun  4 03:01:51 2025 from 54.188.236.235
ubuntu@xrichmolex1:~$ 
```

I think I have now completed most of the required design elements of this infrastructure challenge. I will stop here for
tonight and then reload the servers and deep dive into the testing tomorrow.  Thinking about it now, adding an uninstaller
role might not be a bad idea either. This way the hosts can be reset without having to perform a reload on them.  I'll also
look into adding this tomorrow too.

Also noticed that my custom web monitoring script is reporting as `Critical` and that all the web servers are down in the
web UI. This has to be related to the firewall config I did. I will address this tomorrow too. 

END TIME: 10:16 PM CST


## Next Steps
- Testing. Testing. More Testing.
- Fix firewall rules related to Nagios script
- Develop uninstaller role for the system/roles
- Create better architecture diagram for README
- Refine work notes (add missing pictures and clean up grammar)