# Worklog for 2025-05-28

## Summary of Activities
- Pass Vault password to playbook through CLI
- Code initial version of the custom web monitoring script
- Install and configure custom plugin through Ansible
- Testing of monitoring role


## Process

START TIME: 6:28 PM CST

Figured out why I wasn't seeing any hosts other than localhost on the Nagios web UI.  I forgot to configure Nagios
with the hosts it needed to monitor. I will need to pass configs for the web servers and load balancer in order
to make Nagios aware of them.  Seems simple enough, I will update and retest.

Added a host.cfg template file to loop over the web and lb servers in the inventory. I had to create a parent group
in the inventory file to group the servers I wanted to monitor and looped over them to create the configs. It's a
design I've kept consistent with the rest of the project and didn't want to change that now. This maintains my
goal of only having to update hosts in one location if something were to change down the line.

Well the hosts are showing up now but all the tests are still showing as red. I tried to re-schedule the check like
the configuration doc told me to but I'm getting the below error:

```
Error: Could not open command file '/usr/local/nagios/var/rw/nagios.cmd' for update! 

The permissions on the external command file and/or directory may be incorrect. Read the FAQs on how to setup proper permissions. An error occurred while attempting to commit your command for processing.
```

Checked the FAQ and it looks like I didn't provide the correct permissions to the right file during install. Looks
like I need to run the configure script with the  `--with-command-group=nagcmd` option in order to give it the 
right permissions. Going to update and try that now. Hopefully this will fix all the red I see in the dashboard.

Fix addressed the error and at least I'm now able to manually re-schedule the next check time of the host but still
see a lot of red in the dashboard and a lot of the base errors (below).  Going to grab dinner and then come back to
this.

```
(No output on stdout) stderr: execvp(/usr/local/nagios/libexec/check_load, ...) failed. errno is 2: No such file or directory 
```

While picking up dinner I had an idea.  That error I was getting is the same error that was showing before I configured 
the plugins.  Which means my plugin install isn't being read by the core installation.  It seems obvious now writing it
down but the reason Nagios core wasn't picking it up was because I was installing the plugins on the hosts themselves
thinking that was the location where they were supposed to be and not on the main monitoring server. I reconfigured my
code to install the plugins on the monitoring host itself and everything started popping up green.  PEBCAK error.

Now that monitoring seems to be working, I want to revisit some of the design choices I made, particularily with the 
python script. I want to make the script more modular as it would help with maintainability.  To do that, I created 
a couple new functions to accomplish the same goal. I like this new version better because if I were to ever need to
read from an input file a list of webservers or check if they're online, I can reuse the functions I hae already built
in this script.

Next enhancement. Since I initially was installing Nagios core on the monitoring node and the Nagios Plugins on the target
nodes, I separated the requirements into two separate dictionaries.  Now that I'm running the install on the same host, 
I'm going to combine them and remove the duplicates. Will also only call this once in the `main.yml` file and remove the
prerequesite package installs from both `install_core.yml` and `install_plugins.yml`.

I think that is all I need for the monitoring portion of this exercise.  I believe all that is remaining to do is to add
the expensify user and lockdown the network and ssh access and clean up the README.

END TIME: 8:48 PM CST


## Next Steps
- Add Expensify User and ssh key to all hosts
- Configure network requirements 
- Create better architecture diagram for README
- Refine work notes (add missing pictures and clean up grammar)