# Worklog for 2025-05-16

## Summary of Activities
- Created a new repository for the project.
- Set up the initial structure for tracking progress and tasks
- Review requirements and sketch out rough architecture diagram
- Review NGINX, HAProxy, and Nagios setup and configuration steps


## Process

START TIME: 12:21 PM CST

Finished up my work tasks a bit early today so decided to review and get started on this challenge. 

My first thoughts once reviewing the challenge was to create the foundation for everything.  That meant creating the repository 
for this exercise and define the structure for how best document my thought process with notes, concerns, issues, etc. A daily 
working log organized by dates seemed to be the practical choice.  This is the structure I've chosen for now but could always 
change if this gets too cumbersome. 

Reviewed the requirements in the challenge and documented them first on paper, then in the README.  Used these requirements to
sketch out a rough architecture diagram.  Will create a more detailed one later on for the README but this will do for now.

Will use NGINX and HAProxy as the software for the webservers and load balancer, respectively.  I chose these because these are
the applications I am most familiar with.  

Given that the infrastructure was already provided for me, seems like Ansible will be best to manage the configurations.  Need 
to determine if I need to factor in provisioning the infrastructure into my design.  If I do, terraform will be the better 
alternative. Will follow up with Chirag next week as it's almost the weekend and don't want communiction to get lost.  If I 
identify any other questions I can bundle them and ask all at once.  

It's been awhile since I've had to provision a web server so will need to review the install and configuration for both NGINX
and HAProxy.  I've never utilized Nagios before so will spend some extra time reviewing how the configuration is done for this.
Note to self: make sure to document all resources used in the README

This feels like a good stopping point for today and I have errands to run so will review the docs on Nagios either tonight or 
later this weekend.  Going to gym and enjoy Friday night with the family.

END TIME: 3:28 PM CST


## Next Steps
- Determine whether to use Ansible or terraform. Send follow up email to confirm the assumption that infrastructure provisioning
    doesn't need to be factored in. 
- Review NGINX, HAProxy, and Nagios installation steps and configuration steps/syntax.
- Create better architecture diagram for README (lower priority)