# Worklog for 2025-05-27

## Summary of Activities
- Code/Debug Initial version of Nagios Core setup
- Code/Debug Initial version of Nagios Plugins setup
- Secure web admin credentials in ansible-vault


## Process

START TIME: 4:12 PM CST

Today I will focus on getting Nagios installed on the system.  I found the support doc for installing on ubuntu 
so I will be using this as a guide for my installation playbook.

According to the support doc, I need to first install the necessary prerequisite packages that are required during
the install. There are quite a few packages and I didn't just want to list them as items to loop through in a task
as I felt there is a better way to organize that.  I made the decision to put the required packages under a variable
and store them under defaults.  This way it is an easy way to view which packages are required at a quick glance
and don't have to go through the role to view/update them.

With that done, I needed to download and extract the source.  I got the url from the support doc and its just a simple
`wget` command so using the `get_url` ansible module should work just fine here. I could just download the latest
version at all times but I figured it would be good to specify the version as a variable to ensure that there are
no breaking changes in case the version is updated and messes up the config due to a missing required package or
extra step.  It's also good to store the url there as well just in case that changes in the future as well.  It is
also a tar file so we'll need the `unarchive` module to unzip the file.

The configuration steps utilize the Makefile in the download. There are quite a few commands to run and all need
to be run from the directory of the config files.  I originally had a task for each step that used the `command`
module and the `chdir` argument to execute in the right directory.  This is obviously very repetitive, not that
appealing to read, and extends the length of the tasks.  To help address all of those concerns, I decided to put
them in an ansible `block` to group all the commands and pass `chdir` argument just once to all the tasks.  While
a good idea on the surface, this resulted in errors during execution:  

```
ERROR! 'args' is not a valid attribute for a Block

The error appears to be in '/Users/richmole/Documents/github/expensify-infra-challenge/roles/monitoring/tasks/install_core.yml': line 20, column 3, but may
be elsewhere in the file depending on the exact syntax problem.
```

Made a mistake: `args` can't be used with an ansible block.  Decided the best way forward would be to loop through
the commands with the `shell` module.  This approach addresses all the concerns I had before: the code is much less
repetitive, more appealing to read (especially with comments to indicate what each step does), and reduces the 
length of the role. 

The rest of the nagios core installation is pretty straight forward. User/group creation, firewall rules, ensure
services are started and enabled, etc.  The one thing to note would be the creation of the web console admin user.
The docs indicate that to create the admin, to run the command and pass the password for the account when prompted.
Obviously, if we are automating this, passing at runtime isn't the best idea and storing an unsecured password
in a variable isn't desireable either.  Will need to think about this and circle back.

The plugin installation is pretty straight forward as well. It follows a similar process to the core installation
just with different versioning, download url, and configuration steps.  Used the same structure as the core install
and placed in a separate task file for simplicity.  I still need to write the custom script but need to read on how
this would be configured and how/where to expect the file to be imported from when called.

Circling back to securing the admin credentials for the web interface. Ansible-vault is the apparent solution. I can
use Ansible vault to encrypt the admin username/password variables and store/retrieve them that way.  Ran an
`ansible-vault create` command in terminal, secured it with a password, and stored the variables there.  I now don't
have to worry about having unsecure passwords stored in ansible.  Ran the play again for sanity and it worked. I still
had to provide a password for the vault file though so I will need to figure this part out later.

It's long pass stopping time but once you hit a groove it's hard to stop.  Next steps would be to figure out how to
automate the vault password being passed to the playbook and writing/installing the custom plugin to check the hosts
as requested. 

END TIME: 9:43 PM CST


## Next Steps
- Identify way to pass vault password to playbook by CLI command.
- Develop custom python script to check web servers
- Install/configure the custom plugin on the hosts
- Create better architecture diagram for README (lower priority)
- Refine work notes (add missing pictures and clean up grammar) (lower priority)